Spoilers.
All right.
Hello, everybody.
Let's talk some design affordances, all right?
If you haven't met me, I'm Tynan.
I am a founding contributor at Ecosystem Action.
I also run AppRoto Boston, and if you've seen
the lobster or heard me talk about my lobster children, that is
them.
They are a bunch of high schoolers who I mentor to
build robots, and they're competing this weekend, so I had to
represent.
Yeah.
I came into design through Georgia Tech's industrial design program.
That's sort of how I got involved in this space and
research, and I want to bring some more of that here to
the atmosphere.
So affordances, big weird word that maybe we don't talk
much about outside of design, but basically what it means is the
possible actions that an actor or person can perceive readily within the
environment.
So, for instance, stairs afford sitting, climbing to an able-bodied
person, but to a wheelchair user, they do not afford climbing.
That's because an affordance represents specifically a relationship between the
individual and the environment.
You don't just have a capability, but in a relationship with
the person in that space, you have an affordance.
So a capability without a signifier or without being self-ev
ident of the environment itself is not actionable by the user and
therefore not a real affordance that results in actions to be
able to be taken.
Now, we in AppProto are familiar with lots of really
great capabilities that we have in the atmosphere.
You've got decoupling of data and apps.
You can reuse that data across lots of different places.
You sort of have this headless website that anyone can build
an interface for.
There's no real first-party claim to data.
You can delete stuff, maybe, because you're also really publishing to
the web, but we as users now have a lot more agency
than we used to have on centralized platforms, and we can exert
market forces in a way that we couldn't before, and we
can move around without losing anything in the process.
These are really cool capabilities, but if you don't manifest those
into perceivable actions, there are not affordances.
The user, the person, cannot do those things.
The agency that we're trying to provide won't be executed,
so we need to make those executable.
We can elevate capabilities into affordances, and help people establish new
mental models around all these affordances by doing good product design.
So let's see some examples, because people are doing a great
job here in the atmosphere.
I, as an AppProto user, can use my account in
lots of different places, not just blue skies.
So this is the login screen for Pocket.
We've got a couple signifiers, like the little butterfly, and
user handle to indicate that my blue sky identity is usable in
this place.
Shout out to Amelia and FedCM for working on making
this user experience even better in the future.
I can use my AppProto account for all different kinds
of activity, not just skeeting.
So this is SkyReader, which is an atmospheric RSS
reader, and they added the ability to save articles to Semble,
or Margin, which is a bookmarking service on the
atmosphere.
And what's cool about that, we all know that the permission
less open access of the network means that you can kind of
just build stuff.
So Ronan here, the CEO of Semble and Cosmic
Network, had no idea they were building this and required no intervention.
So he found out alongside the rest of us, and is like, "
Cool, I'm excited to try it." I can interact with people
on different services.
So this is a clip from the Witch Sky Client, which
is a blue sky client fork of Social App.
They add these helpful little badges next to people's names of
what PDS service they're using.
So I can see Dr.
K's post, and I can see also that she is on
the Black Sky PDS.
And even though we're on different services, we can still engage
and follow and interact with each other totally normally.
I can even interact with people across different protocols.
We just heard from Anuj all the great things Bridgie
is doing.
So I can see everything on his Macedon account get brid
ged all the way across and interact in a perfectly native way.
I can engage with the same activity in different places.
You might have been assembling your conference schedule today using SmokeS
ignal or Atmo.
rsvp or on the official conference website.
All of that is pulling from the same activity, the same data
on the atmosphere, and that's why we're able to get
multiple different experiences that might work better for different people.
I can even move my account without losing anything in the process.
So we've had a lot of successful migrations to Euros
ky, which is very exciting.
The EU haul tool is really usable, and we have totally normal
users happy and satisfied with their moving process, and again, you can
interact with them all just the same.
This one I like a lot too, because obviously some projects end.
Every product doesn't last forever.
Some people might remember the original Skylight, not Tori, but
Skylights.
Which was a film reviewing app on the atmosphere, which the maintain
er decided was, you know, they were not done, or they were
done with that project, which is okay.
They could build a tool to allow people to migrate their data
out of Skylights and into PopFeed, which is another
film reviewing app on the atmosphere, and so all that data gets
to live on.
Skylights is able to go to rest, but all the people
and the users and their reviews and data get to continue to
be useful in the atmosphere.
This is a weird one.
My social activity doesn't necessarily need an app.
So, some of you might be familiar with Teal, but if
you're not, it is an atmospheric alternative to LastFM,
which is a music scrabbling service where you can log
your listening activity across Spotify, Apple Music, Tidal, you know, whatever
you use so that we can have social music discovery features outside
of an individual streaming service.
Teal is like that for the atmosphere, so you can sc
rabble all of your listens to your PDS, and then
we get all the atmospheric advantages where people can build visualizations
and wraps and all those things, but Teal doesn't exist.
It's not a product.
This is the website.
It just says coming soon eventually.
Bailey and Zeyu and all of them are busy with
other things, so keep working on it, but maybe we'll get
Teal eventually, but not yet, but it's the atmosphere.
You can just do things.
Somebody made Teal.
There it is.
It's not at Teal.
fm, but this is a full Teal experience where you
can see genres and activity and trending and I can see what
people are listening to.
So we've really barely started to manifest all the possible afford
ances with these great capabilities that we have.
How might we, as a community, overcome the hurdles preventing the mass
adoption and, importantly, the execution of agency made possible by liberatory
network technology?
I think we need more designers, more researchers, ethnographers, system thinkers,
humanities experts to help make all these affordances legible, to
help people establish new mental models around all these affordances, and
really to make the agency afforded by all this decentralized technology
accessible to people so they can exercise that agency.
Whoo!
So that's what we're doing.
Ecosystem Action Research, you might have heard of us in
the last month or so, is a little band of volunteers, I
think we're at 13 now, of those types of people, we
're going to try to bring more research and design activity to
this space and facilitate these discovery processes alongside the community with the
community to answer some of these big ecosystem-wide questions.
What we envision in the long term is that the atmosphere network
ecosystem contributors and participants are empowered to exercise the agency afforded
by a public interest internet, and that includes all sorts of people
like moderators and knowledge workers and organizers and artists, journalists, builders
like you, and just everyday end-users.
So our mission at EAR is to equip and support the
people and organizations who build with and on top of the app
network technology to empower people who create on and organize with and
steward trust and safety for internet communities.
I want to thank Dan for encouraging me to make this talk,
and Christian, you might know help to sort of get started all
of the EAR activities, and I have a list of all
the resources and concepts and examples in a symbol list right here
for all of you.
Thanks.
Thank you very much, let's all give a round of applause
for Simon.